content/client/basics/050_output-mode.en.md, before:

+++
title = "Output Mode"
slug = "output-mode"
weight = 50
description = "The BOMnipotent client offers various output modes (code, raw, error, warn, info, debug, trace) for logging and data output, with examples and usage instructions."
+++

The BOMnipotent client offers several output modes which can be chosen by a global optional argument:
- code
- raw
- error
- warn
- info
- debug
- trace

Output modes [code](#code) and [raw](#raw) have special behaviour treated below. Choosing modes error, warn, info, debug or trace makes BOMnipotent print all messages up to that log level.

## Info, Warn and Error

The default output mode is info. It prints some information, but does not overwhelm the user.

``` bash
bomnipotent_client health
```
``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
Service is healthy
```

``` bash
bomnipotent_client bom list
```
``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
╭─────────────┬─────────┬─────────────────────────┬─────────┬────────────╮
│ Product     │ Version │ Timestamp               │ TLP     │ Components │
├─────────────┼─────────┼─────────────────────────┼─────────┼────────────┤
│ BOMnipotent │ 1.0.0   │ 2025-02-01 03:31:50 UTC │ Default │ 363        │
╰─────────────┴─────────┴─────────────────────────┴─────────┴────────────╯
```

Or, in case of an error:
``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
Received response status: 401 Unauthorized
Error: "No approved and currently valid public keys were found for user admin@wwh-soft.com"
```

## Debug

The debug output mode prints some additional information which may be of interest when looking for the cause of an error in the input or setup:
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab title="long" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client --output=debug health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab title="short" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client -o debug health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
[DEBUG] Looking for session data in /home/simon/.config/bomnipotent/session.toml
[DEBUG] Looking for secret key
[DEBUG] The provided key is a path: /home/simon/git/bomnipotent/test_cryptofiles/admin
[DEBUG] Signing request
[DEBUG] Assembled GET request to http://localhost:8080/health
[DEBUG] starting new connection: http://localhost:8080/
Service is healthy
```

## Trace

In output mode trace, BOMnipotent additionally prints the module where the log message originated. This is mainly interesting for finding the cause of an error in the program itself.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab title="long" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client --output=trace health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab title="short" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client -o trace health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
[bomnipotent_client::session_data] [DEBUG] Looking for session data in /home/simon/.config/bomnipotent/session.toml
[bomnipotent_client::keys] [DEBUG] Looking for secret key
[bomnipotent_client::keys] [DEBUG] The provided key is a path: /home/simon/git/bomnipotent/test_cryptofiles/admin
[reqwest::blocking::wait] [TRACE] (ThreadId(1)) park without timeout
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] (ThreadId(2)) start runtime::block_on
[bomnipotent_client::request] [DEBUG] Signing request
[bomnipotent_client::request] [DEBUG] Assembled GET request to http://localhost:8080/health
[reqwest::blocking::wait] [TRACE] wait at most 30s
[reqwest::blocking::wait] [TRACE] (ThreadId(1)) park timeout 29.99999896s
[reqwest::connect] [DEBUG] starting new connection: http://localhost:8080/
[reqwest::blocking::wait] [TRACE] wait at most 30s
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] closing runtime thread (ThreadId(2))
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] signaled close for runtime thread (ThreadId(2))
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] (ThreadId(2)) Receiver is shutdown
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] (ThreadId(2)) end runtime::block_on
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] (ThreadId(2)) finished
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] closed runtime thread (ThreadId(2))
Service is healthy
```

## Code

The code output prints only the [HTTP status code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes) of the response.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab title="long" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client --output=code health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab title="short" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client -o code health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
200
```

This can come in handy if you want to use BOMnipotent Client in scripts:
```bash
code=$(./bomnipotent_client --domain=$domain --output=code health)
if (( code != 200 )); then
    echo "Server at $domain is not healthy!"
    exit 1;
fi
```

Note that there is no newline or carriage return character at the end of the output.

## Raw

For calls to BOMnipotent Client that access some structured data, the raw output prints that data in json format **instead** of parsing and processing it.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab title="long" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client --output=raw bom list
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab title="short" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client -o raw bom list
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
[{"name":"BOMnipotent","version":"1.0.0","timestamp":"2025-01-03T05:38:03Z","tlp":null,"components":350}]
```

The output can then easily be parsed and processed by your program logic.

Note that there is no newline or carriage return character at the end of the output.

Commit message:

Note on Code return codes.

content/client/basics/050_output-mode.en.md, after:

+++
title = "Output Mode"
slug = "output-mode"
weight = 50
description = "The BOMnipotent client offers various output modes (code, raw, error, warn, info, debug, trace) for logging and data output, with examples and usage instructions."
+++

The BOMnipotent client offers several output modes which can be chosen by a global optional argument:
- code
- raw
- error
- warn
- info
- debug
- trace

Output modes [code](#code) and [raw](#raw) have special behaviour treated below. Choosing modes error, warn, info, debug or trace makes BOMnipotent print all messages up to that log level.

## Info, Warn and Error

The default output mode is info. It prints some information, but does not overwhelm the user.

``` bash
bomnipotent_client health
```
``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
Service is healthy
```

``` bash
bomnipotent_client bom list
```
``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
╭─────────────┬─────────┬─────────────────────────┬─────────┬────────────╮
│ Product     │ Version │ Timestamp               │ TLP     │ Components │
├─────────────┼─────────┼─────────────────────────┼─────────┼────────────┤
│ BOMnipotent │ 1.0.0   │ 2025-02-01 03:31:50 UTC │ Default │ 363        │
╰─────────────┴─────────┴─────────────────────────┴─────────┴────────────╯
```

Or, in case of an error:
``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
Received response status: 401 Unauthorized
Error: "No approved and currently valid public keys were found for user admin@wwh-soft.com"
```

## Debug

The debug output mode prints some additional information which may be of interest when looking for the cause of an error in the input or setup:
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab title="long" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client --output=debug health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab title="short" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client -o debug health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
[DEBUG] Looking for session data in /home/simon/.config/bomnipotent/session.toml
[DEBUG] Looking for secret key
[DEBUG] The provided key is a path: /home/simon/git/bomnipotent/test_cryptofiles/admin
[DEBUG] Signing request
[DEBUG] Assembled GET request to http://localhost:8080/health
[DEBUG] starting new connection: http://localhost:8080/
Service is healthy
```

## Trace

In output mode trace, BOMnipotent additionally prints the module where the log message originated. This is mainly interesting for finding the cause of an error in the program itself.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab title="long" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client --output=trace health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab title="short" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client -o trace health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
[bomnipotent_client::session_data] [DEBUG] Looking for session data in /home/simon/.config/bomnipotent/session.toml
[bomnipotent_client::keys] [DEBUG] Looking for secret key
[bomnipotent_client::keys] [DEBUG] The provided key is a path: /home/simon/git/bomnipotent/test_cryptofiles/admin
[reqwest::blocking::wait] [TRACE] (ThreadId(1)) park without timeout
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] (ThreadId(2)) start runtime::block_on
[bomnipotent_client::request] [DEBUG] Signing request
[bomnipotent_client::request] [DEBUG] Assembled GET request to http://localhost:8080/health
[reqwest::blocking::wait] [TRACE] wait at most 30s
[reqwest::blocking::wait] [TRACE] (ThreadId(1)) park timeout 29.99999896s
[reqwest::connect] [DEBUG] starting new connection: http://localhost:8080/
[reqwest::blocking::wait] [TRACE] wait at most 30s
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] closing runtime thread (ThreadId(2))
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] signaled close for runtime thread (ThreadId(2))
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] (ThreadId(2)) Receiver is shutdown
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] (ThreadId(2)) end runtime::block_on
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] (ThreadId(2)) finished
[reqwest::blocking::client] [TRACE] closed runtime thread (ThreadId(2))
Service is healthy
```

## Code

The code output prints only the [HTTP status code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes) of the response.
{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab title="long" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client --output=code health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab title="short" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client -o code health
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
200
```

This can come in handy if you want to use BOMnipotent Client in scripts:
```bash
code=$(./bomnipotent_client --domain=$domain --output=code health)
if (( code != 200 )); then
    echo "Server at $domain is not healthy!"
    exit 1;
fi
```

Note that there is no newline or carriage return character at the end of the output.

**Attention:** In code mode, BOMnipotent Client always exits with a terminal exit code of 0 (signaling success) if it can obtain any HTTP code. This way, the program is easier to use inside scripts that return on errors.

## Raw

For calls to BOMnipotent Client that access some structured data, the raw output prints that data in json format **instead** of parsing and processing it.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab title="long" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client --output=raw bom list
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab title="short" %}}
```bash
bomnipotent_client -o raw bom list
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

``` {wrap="false" title="output"}
[{"name":"BOMnipotent","version":"1.0.0","timestamp":"2025-01-03T05:38:03Z","tlp":null,"components":350}]
```

The output can then easily be parsed and processed by your program logic.

Note that there is no newline or carriage return character at the end of the output.
